streaming us and then we'll record
you
okay
hello and welcome to the ipfs what you
call where hmm try that again
hello and welcome to the ipfs weekly
call where we get an opportunity find on
all the interesting things that are
being built by our community members and
let's do some housework first and here
can you hear me oh yes party two : sign
in please I just put in the doc just
sign in and I'll be great and today
we're going to hear from Andre and he's
going to talk about this hi but but
before we talk about discuss off' i
ollie our note-taker yay thank you ollie
has an announcement for us a really
exciting announcement ah it's like a
segue right hello
so one thing that we have noticed is a
recurring comment is that it's there's a
lot of surface area of ipfs and
sometimes it's difficult to know where
to start
so you're excited about ipfs and you
want to contribute huh well we're gonna
try and make that easier I mean we're
always improving the documentation but
as an extension to this call we're gonna
have an office hours so it'll be the
there's no agenda there's just an hour
before this call every week we're gonna
try and get to two people from core team
to be available it'll be me for the
first few weeks until everyone gets
really excited about it because it will
be the most fun call to be on and we're
just gonna be available and so if you
have started working on a PR but you got
stuck or you are just excited about IDs
and want to contribute improvements to
documentation or just learn a bit more
about how it works so that you can
contribute and that is the call for you
and I've deliberately placed it right
before this call so they can segue
nicely and be a stable weekly event that
that we
okay beginners welcome there is an issue
I will share it in the chat it's on ipfs
community repo and the idea is that I
will add an issue each week for for this
call and to remind people that the
contrary to ours is available the office
hours event is a little any just paste a
link into the chat and if there are any
existing contributors here present you
want to idle on that call and help
answer questions and that would be great
um if if everyone is happy and it's
contributing successfully and there are
questions I will use the time to you to
do a kind of AMA on IRC and go through
the latest questions on discuss stop if
I start that's the plan it's an
experiment help me out I could get an
awesome experience
thank you so much for spearheading this
alley and this is not just for
programmers like if you are into
documentation if you're into design then
you can also be part of a call and we'll
figure out and we'll show you how you
can start contributing so yay I actually
want to give that a class
yay all right now it is time for our
main presentation um Andre is going to
walk us through to specify the specify
is a distributed app built on top of lib
p2p where you can actually chat we're
trapped in a browser I used it it was
pretty cool um it's pretty amazing and I
can't wait to learn more about it
so without further ado Andre please take
it away
hello everyone I'm sharing my screen
condition can you see my screen yeah
okay so before I start I want to ask
something if possible of course so I put
a link in in the discuss if I sorry in
in the zoom shed with the link for for
the extension to be installed on your
Chrome browser so if you'll have some
time please install it so that we can
play around together like in real time
while I present this classified will be
awesome really awesome if one or two or
maybe five people called join you know
the real-time conversation for has test
discuss if I so the first thing that you
have to do is install the Chrome
extension of course but you also need to
setup your you ports identity on your
phone and they takes that might takes a
few minutes so if you if you already
have it also
it won't take any time basically but if
you haven't please PLEASE start start it
already
it might take like one to two minutes to
set up an account on new port or your
identity on your port
so anyway exports here purchase yet
viscous file is a real-time decentralize
sheds or discussion platform for the web
and it's built on built on top of IP FS
and we p2p so we actually started these
back I would say half of 2018 and we
actually launched the first version on
December or maybe earlier I think
November of the same year basically and
these application starts on start
basically inside the working group of
the dynamic data and capabilities
because we wanted to not only use peer
path as a testing bed but also another
good if we different use cases to to
further complement the the things that
we are building we are we were building
in the dynamic data and capabilities
working group so besides having peer
power
we also start to discuss if I to have
different to discuss as I said and this
in this case we opted for something like
a chat application and real-time shared
application because it has different
different problems and require different
solutions for some problems so yeah we
started this design it took us like
three to four months to actually develop
it and I'm gonna actually show you and
I'm just talking a bit a little bit
introducing the projects to give you
some time to to actually install
application but I will demo it right now
using maybe ipfs for our your website I
will actually ask Pedro which which is
here actually to join the conversation
and specify but essentially I will start
let me just minimize this stuff here so
I'm gonna actually log out so that you
can see the whole the whole flow process
so once you once you enable the
extension a little balloon here appears
and when you click it it has Q's asks
you to log in with your ports at the
moment I'm using I'm using your part to
provide authentication and identity but
this is something that will change in
the future
actually Moxie is working on a
decentralized identity solution called
Romeo's and which is basically based on
the on IBM which stands for Identity
Manager and and essentially it's it's
it's a product and the specification for
you to create the centralized identities
based on the IDs and verifiable
conditions and some other official
specifications that are being built by
the community and you port is actually
one of the div methods that that IDM
will actually use inside so for now I'm
just going to use you part to login and
give me a second
to open new ports and scandisk your coat
right so it should
in a few seconds
not working
okay it works not so I'm not dealing
right now and I can already see two
peers hopefully I think it's it's better
so what you thing here is basically a
sidebar which which has the the comments
section on the middle and you have the
ability to add new comments so as I said
we usually p2p and ipfs to provide the
networking layer at the persistency
layer as well because the peers
themselves basically discovered discover
each other using the p2p and observe but
the messages that that I sent are
persistent on ipfs so all of these is
thing it's made possible thanks to peer
base so peer base is a beauty peer
library that everyone can use I think
Pedro Teixeira already presented
presented heat a few times and also gave
some some workshops and I already gave
some workshops as well but essentially
I'm using the p2p which uses ipfs only
b2b underneath to provide a peer to peer
frankly real-time basically to build
applications on on real-time
peer-to-peer networking not networks and
as I said I also built this library in
the peer base which was also created in
the working group the same working of
dynamic data it's very powerful and
basically it allows you to to you see
our duties to provide conflict-free
replicated data structures which I'm
using here so if I type hello here what
will happen is that this data structure
will be replicated to the other peer
which i think is Pedro and if Pedro is
possibly could you apply something so if
if better if this works out better will
reply to this comment or post something
and what happens is that you can see it
but both comments are well replicated
among among the two peers in a in a
known conflict way basically similar to
the get primitives or principles because
they are there are no no conflicts
unless there is and you have to solve it
but in terms of the peel bar is there's
no conflicts at all that's why they are
conflict free and thanks to the peer
guys and I confess and would be to be we
are seeing oh all those technologies
playing well together because the
comments are being persisted on like FS
ipfs towards the actual textual comments
and then we have the the lis p2p and the
peer base layer which you know makes the
or makes the synchronization possible
and the whole shape that you that we are
seeing is is a instance I said as he R
DT we should stores the little seeds of
the comments basically they although the
low comment is sure I'm replying comment
and how shiny comment from Jessica is
seeds each one is as a Content ID and
they are being fetched in parallel when
a new comment arrives so in terms of the
features I can add new comments I can
reply from two comments for instance I
can reply to comments made by Pedro I
can edit my comments like this and also
I can delete a comment so I do post
their comments and I will delete it
this seems to work and and I think
that's pretty much it's basically each
discussion is unique per link or per per
link basically so if I go to another
side song for instance if I go to
github.com you'll see that the comments
or the discussion is empty by screen so
a few references if you are curious
about how discussed if I is actually
implemented and and so on
you can check the p.m. you specify
wrapper on gira it contains basically a
lot of information basically contains
the concept the concept the commutation
about the project contains the features
and so on and also the extension
themselves and the code wise lives in
two different repositories so you have
the the browser extension which is you
know is the code responsible for for the
actual extension and then you have the
style guide which is a set of react
components that power is classify the
discursive fiber as an extension we did
we did it that way because we we wanted
to make also a web a web based discuss
affine application and also we wanted to
make in the future an iframe similar to
the Facebook iframe where you can copy
the Facebook snippet to have comments in
your website we wanted to have that as
well so we created a style guide in
order to share a lot of components that
we use so yeah I think that's basically
it
if you have any questions it will be
awesome if you could ask them and I'm
sorry for the lack of of you know
preparation about these but yeah that
was a very nice demo thank you very much
thank you okay um at this point if you
have any questions or comments if you
put it in the chat that would be
wonderful
any questions or comments
let's see the same thing
gibberish Oh we'll get to Jim's question
first the questions are being written
somewhere yes they are in the chat all
right so will you be switching to Nami
O's this question is from Jim
okay we'll be who you'll be switching to
Nami that's a question yes yeah so yeah
we have plans to switch to nominees once
once we have proof of concept working
essentially no means what what will give
us out of the box or the most - the most
important things are two things the
first one is that it will allows us to
sign to sign comments because at the
moment you port doesn't allow you to
sign data directly you need you need
them you need some sort of back-end to
do that for you or you need to use their
credentials which is not really for that
purpose but no means will allow you to
sign the comments so that I can be sure
that a comment is made or the authorship
or the ownership of a comment is really
from the person that made it that's one
of the things that the other main point
that noemi's will give us is that we it
will allow us to use other decentralized
identity solutions or more specifically
specifically other GID methods because
there are a lot of the ID methods you
port is just one there is a lot more
there is for instance I actually will
open if you still see mask when I opened
the ID has three so you port as you can
see is listed here in the table it's
here it's just one of two the ID methods
there are a lot of a lot of the ADI
methods for instance the various one is
also very very known in the echo system
you also have some others from Bitcoin
the phone from the Bitcoin blockchain
there are also well known we have the
sovereign which also well known and no
music will allow us to integrate
seamlessly with any data method you
don't need to add specific code for the
various types of the end methods you
just do it one way and the numbers will
figure out and have an adapter layer
that will take take care of that for you
basically
and as a question could you tell us yeah
post upon this what is numb yes all
right all right so I will let me point
in the red book so if you want to know
more about mummies I we have here a
rapper also on Shipyard so this is
something that we are working for two
thugs and a half I think so no muted as
IBM and IBM still exists is still a
thing I will explain but it all started
we not with an RFC around identity again
this was work being done in the end of
anemic data and community some people
here are familiar with it I'm seeing and
see some people some some long faces
here anyway basically it's all started
as an RFC with a proposal to make the
decentralized identity more easy to do
in a peer-to-peer manner more
specifically to integrate with Pierre
part and specify because we really need
to need identity in Essex crucified and
also in prepared Pierre part but we were
having difficulties with the current
solutions because they are not really
beautiful friendly and and and even if
they are they are not very user friendly
because they require you to install
things such as extensions for instance
meta mask and whatnot and those are
things that the average Internet user
don't expect to do in order to interact
with a rebel or a standard application
so we started working on all the IBM
concept and IBM stands for Identity
Manager and what it really is and I will
quote here is a unified or an attempt to
create a notify digital wallet based on
open standards that's that aims to
support multiple decentralized
identities and no mios is a let's say a
concretization of that because IDM is a
spec and anyone can implement their own
identity wallets based on this back and
norm use is just just one of those
wallets because no meals has an design
and has a front front hands with with
the specific you know specific face in
terms of looking how it looks and how it
feels but I can ayah or n any other can
implement their own identity based on
the same specs so if you're interested
in knowing more we have here that the PM
IDM hypo where we also have the concept
we have the specification we have some
some diagram for you to to explore which
you know entails all the all the user
flows of the the lay of the wallet and
you have here the work one as well so we
are currently working on this and if you
are also interested in knowing or
previewing how the application is
looking like or the wallet is looking
like we host be weekly meeting every
Monday but but I think the next one will
be on Thursday because of the the
holidays implications around around a
specific time in Portugal right now but
I think that essentially that this does
it answer your question Jim or diet
which you pour to Nitin my old identity
and now there's another fish instead it
only works for okay I got it I got it I
just the new identity but how to use the
u.s. address what do you mean
the you port application deleted your
old identity stored there yes you like
you upgraded the application maybe yeah
this one's really good all right
yeah but the thing the thing is that you
as a deity method as a recovery
mechanism that allows you to recover
your your identity that's why it's
asking you for the the zip code we
should you wish you don't have has a
recovery method sorry did you mention
that IDM has an a recovery method so so
IBM is just an aggregator of all the div
methods your part is just one so if you
port supports recovery methods method
and you are using an identity or you
imported an identity to IDM from your
part you also be able to recall to
recover your your identity through IDM
but for instance IDM also supports other
JD methods one of them is IP ID and I
PID because it uses I penis and I my PFS
on music and because it relies on your
on the fact that your IP and s key is
your identity basically you can't really
recover it at least rightly because once
you lose it you lose it you lose your
identity because it's compromised anyone
can point to another some other
documents saying who you are or
something like that so so you can't
really recovered so it's dependent on
the diag method that you use when
importing or when creating your identity
true identity awesome thank you are
there any other questions and my
original question was related to bins
which was why are you switching away
from you port and you've already
answered that question which is great so
any questions before we actually break
okay so I'm just showing some screens so
let's you
can and better understand what's what no
news is sorry to introduce I'm not sure
him ice cream Oh what did you say I said
I said that I'm just sharing as the
current mock-up of of no meals for the
people that Haskell about nominees so
this is how it looks like in terms of
the actual quality so if you see on the
left you have your identities that you
in court it all created through these
wallets and you can add and you can see
your profile and and so on thank you
okay so we don't have any more questions
um Andre thank you very much for taking
a time out to show us to specify and to
also show us the IDM and this lovely
wallet this is like the best wallet I've
ever seen so the one for being here I
will see you next Monday and have a
great week take care thank you very much